# AST Parser and Comparison Tool
## Underlying Project
Static Analysis tools like Joern, SVF, and Fraunhofer's CPG tend to contain flaws that can inhibit program analysis. Our project, Supervised by Prof. Paria Shirani at the University of Ottawa, was to find common flaws in these generated graphs, and implement tools that can detect and fix these in generation.</p>
Early on, we found that the lack of a benchmark when comparing ASTs generated by different static analysis tools makes to process slow and innacurate. Since compiler generated ASTs tend to have the highest degree of accuracy, they should be used as a benchmark to facilitate this comparison. Focusing on C and C++, we decided to work with the Clang AST.

## AST Parser
**NOTE: Currently in progress, source code contains a skeleton traversal, but as of now does NOT traverse properly (See JSON to Dot file tool).**


The first step in creating a benchmark graph is normalising the Clang AST for comparisons. The parser outputs a simplified JSON file that contains the relevant edges and nodes traversed in the Clang AST. This process involves:

* Filtering through AST nodes by file location, ensuring that we omit generic AST dump content like expanded include statements.
* Finding source code associated with each node, as this will make our AST more in line with static analysis tools like Joern
* Formalizing a list of edges, rather than relying on the recursive JSON dumps from the clang AST
* 

## JSON to Dot File
  Dot files provide a very useful visualization for graphs, so transforming Clang's AST dump to a dot file with only the critical information is important. This is acheived with a simple python script that uses NetworkX to store graph information drawn from JSON. This tool is meant to allow for quick visual comparisons while more in-depth tools are created to help.
